Finishing Tool Suite Official Release

Version 9.8.7
The Finishing Tool Suite is now ready for a general release to Team Leads, QC, and Managers. 
Make sure you have the most recent version.

For those unaware, the Finishing Tool Suite is a toolbox containing 19 tools used for Finishing 
and Preprocessing. It is designed to automate some of the data preprocessing, preparation, 
conditioning, repair, geoprocessing, and analysis workflows that are used regularly in Finishing. 
This was done out of necessity due to the rapid increase in size and complexity of the data and 
requirements since the start of Project 9. Many of the tasks performed by these tools were 
originally done manually for each individual scale before GAIT, AO, or other client inspections 
could be run. The tools drastically reduce the amount of GAIT and AO errors that would occur in 
an unprocessed geodatabase. The changes made by the Finishing Tool Suite can reduce GAIT errors 
up to 40-50% and AO errors up to 80%.

Up to this point, the Finishing Tool Suite has not been widely distributed due to the dynamic 
nature of the client/project requirements. Updates to the functionality of the tools were made 
fairly often, and it was not feasible to release new versions of the tool every few weeks. This 
would have just caused confusion. There has been some recent discussion of Team Leads and 
Managers performing interim GAIT and AO runs on the databases to lessen some of the bottlenecked 
pressure on Finishing. Much of the current Finishing process has not been fully documented 
because of time constraints and a dynamically evolving workflow. The purpose of this wider 
release of the Finishing Tool Suite is to work towards this.

In its simplest form, this is the general workflow for performing interim GAIT/AO runs.
  - The TPC needs to be copied down from SDE to a local GDB.
  - The GDB has to be split into separate GDBs by AOI, scale, and/or activity requirement.
  - The first two steps can be accomplished with the Database Guillotine fairly easily and in 
    only one step.
  - The Finishing Tools have to be run on each of the split TDS datasets.
  - Each GDB is run through GAIT with the most recent client inspection files and this option 
    unchecked.
  - Using the latest version of the NGA Janus toolbox, the Attribute Oversight tool is run on 
    each GDB.

Descriptions and explanations for all of the tool options can be found in the Finishing Tool 
Suite v9.8.7 Documentation PDF. A more detailed breakdown of what the Finishing Tool Suite 
actually does can be found in the Manual Finishing Preparation and Repair PDF. (This is not a 
step by step guide for Finishing. It is for documentation purposes and to serve as a sense of 
scale for everything the tools do.)


Important Notes About Using Toolbox Tools
  - Make sure the "Close this dialog when completed successfully" option is unchecked once the 
    tool is running.
  - When using the Finishing Tool Suite or any other toolbox tool, you must expand the "Details" 
    option when the tool is running. All of the important information about what the tool is doing 
    will be output in that window.
  - When you open any toolbox tool, be sure to turn on the "Tool Help" panel on the right. A 
    description and explanation of the tool options is usually available. For all of the toolboxes 
    that have been released by the Finishing Team, this is the case. 
  - If you find a bug or the tool fails, do not close the window. Contact Nat Cagle or John 
    Jackson. Send a screenshot of the error and copy/paste the text output of the error and the 
    last few lines of what the tool was doing. Otherwise, we will not be able to help. For most 
    errors, a large red skull will appear. There was an issue previously with something going 
    wrong and someone didn't notice. If you see this, read through the error report to see if it 
    offers any potential solutions to what went wrong.


One final note:
** DO NOT TRY TO RUN THIS TOOL IN SDE!! **

